# Real-Time News Recommendation System Using Text Vector Embeddings and Apache Kafka
## Project Motivation
Design and implement a real-time news recommendation system that recommends news articles by running a similarity search between an user's preference profile and raw text embeddings of news articles

## Architecture
The application architecture can be demonstrated better when divided into the following parts: Data Ingestion Pipeline and The Recommendation System.

### Data Ingestion Pipeline

* Third-party news publishers can register their public APIs to the application.
* Once an API is registered, the application server starts polling the API periodically (For example: everyday at 12:00:00 AM) for latest publishings.
* The fetched data is written to a Postgres database and published to an internal Apache Kafka broker network.
* Kafka consumers running as independent processes consume data from the broker network in real time and create text embeddings.
* The embeddings are written to a Milvus vector database with the same primary key generated by the Postgres Database

### News Recommendation System

* The recommendation system implements RESTFUL APIs for user management and news article retrieval based on the user preference profile.
* All user, article and publisher data are stored in the Postgres database. Copies of the user and article data are maintained in the Milvus database with an extra column to store user preference embeddings and article text embeddings respectively.
* User interacation with articles are sent to the application server which in turn publishes them to the broker network.
* Consumers pull this data from the network and update user preference embeddings in the vector database.
* When queried for recommendations, a similarity search is conducted between users' preference embeddings and article text embeddings and top results are returned.